Hello everyone. Welcome to a new episode of The
Dissenter. I'm your host, as always, Ricardo Lops, and
today I'm joined by Dr. Jeffrey Simpson. He's distinguished
university teaching professor and chair of the Department of
Psychology at the University of Minnesota, where he also
directs the Doctoral minor in interpersonal relationships, and today
we're going to talk about interpersonal relationships but focusing
mostly on attachment theory, attachment styles, and how they
manifest in interpersonal relationships. So Dr. Simpson, welcome to
the show. It's a pleasure to everyone.
It's a pleasure to be here. Thank you.
So before we get into attachment theory itself, uh,
let me just ask you, because of course we're
going to apply it to interpersonal relationships, what are
the most basic aspects of interpersonal relationships? Where exactly
do their foundations start getting built in life?
I think the most important aspects are in the
way that relationships kind of allow people to live
their lives and navigate their social worlds in a
way that feels as comfortable and flexible to them
as possible. And so, I mean, relationships are We've
learned in the last 30 or so, 40 years
that relationships are very important, um, in that, um,
when they, when they go well, your life tends
to be better, you tend to be a better
parent, you tend to be happier, uh, have higher
well-being. You tend to actually, you know, do better
at work and enjoy your work more. And when
they don't go well, um, they can be really
damaging and debilitating. And they can affect your physical
health, um, in, in some cases, even as much
as engaging in vices like smoking and, and being
overweight or eating poorly, a poor diet, etc. Uh,
AND so, uh, for many years, it was assumed
basically that relationships, sure, they were important, but they
really didn't have really positive or really negative effects
on people in multiple domains of life. Mental health,
physical health, well-being, but we know now, know that
they're very powerful.
So they basically can influence, I mean, most or
even every single aspect of our lives in in
positive or negative ways,
in positive or negative ways, yes, yes. Mm.
And what is the importance of attachment theory when
it comes to understanding interpersonal relationships? I mean, how
much of a role does attachment theory and attachment
styles play, and how much do they allow for
us to have a better grasp on interpersonal relationships?
Very good question. Very good question. So attachment theory,
what makes it unique compared to other major theories
of relationships is it's a lifespan theory. It's a
lifespan theory of, of social and personality development from
the beginning of life across life. And so what
it argues is that Um, what's happening in your
current relationships is partly a vestige of what happened
to you with other important people in your life,
your parents, your earlier friends, your earlier romantic partners,
your earlier attachment figures, uh, in life. Um, AND
although the past doesn't dictate or determine. What you're
like in a current relationship, there's probably, and we've
got some evidence of this actually more recently, there's
vestiges of your past that still are there, even
if you're in better relationships, uh, or worse relationships
as an adult.
Mhm. And what different styles of attachment are there?
And could you just briefly characterize each of them?
Yeah. Um, WELL, it depends a little bit on
whether or not you're focusing on attachment in children
versus attachment in adults, but there is a lot
of overlap. The, the terminology differs a little bit,
but what they kind of assess in terms of
the way people regulate their emotions in relationships are
very, very similar. So, in the adult area, there
are basically 4 types of uh what we call
normative or within normal range attachment styles, and then
there's a disorganized style, which is pretty maladaptive. So,
You have securely attached people. That's the majority actually
of people in many cultures, and these people have
both a positive view of themselves as partners in
relationships and a positive view of their close others.
Uh, AND, uh, and so they tend to be
very well adjusted. They tend to Adopt what are
known as problem-focused emotion regulation strategies. So when they're
upset, what secure people do is they, they, they
use their partner as a resource to help them
manage their emotions, solve their problems, and return to
normal everyday life. Um. Then you have, uh, anxious
people. Anxious people, it's a small percentage of, of
most populations. It's usually 10 or 15% of people
who really are in this category. Um, ANXIOUS people
have a, uh, a negative view of themselves as
partners, but, uh, a, a guarded positive view of
others. So they're hoping their partners are going to
be there for them, but they aren't quite sure.
Uh, AND it makes them hypervigilant. It makes them,
um, wanting to receive reassurance. Uh, THEY, they feel
like they're going to be abandoned or left, and
so they become very clingy, and they're difficult to
be with because of these, of these features, but
they've, they've learned in the past that they have
to do this because they can't count on people
staying with them. Um, AND then you've got two
kinds of avoidant people. You've got dismissive avoidant people,
and then you've got fearful avoidant people. So, dismissive
avoidant people have a negative view of partners, but
a positive yet brutal view of themselves. Um, SO
they think that, you know, they're kind of above
attachment needs. They feel like they don't need people
to kind of, you know, be stable and fulfill
their lives, um, and they, they have a negative.
Negative view of, of other people. Uh, AND so
there's kind of like they're kind of condescending, they're
aloof, um, they're independent, they're autonomous, um, but at,
at some level, they really do need contact with
people, just that they want it on their own
terms. Um, THE other type of avoidant person is
a fearful person. And they have both a negative
view of themselves as partners and also a negative
view of other people as partners. And so these
people basically are kind of a combination of avoidant
and anxious tendencies, uh, and they kind of go
back and forth between the two depending on, on
the situation. So you can think of these four
styles as in a two-dimensional space where one dimension
is, is whether or not or the degree to
which you have a positive view of who you
are. Uh, uh, YOUR self-esteem in relationships, um, positive
or negative, and the other dimension is your view
of your partner. Is it positive or is it
negative? And then another dimension which is kind of
more, more in the clinical realm is called a
disorganized attachment style, and this actually reflects a lack
of a coherent strategy to kind of regulate your
emotions when you're upset and to negotiate and deal
with people. So people who are disorganized have oftentimes
been really treated extremely badly earlier in life. They've
been abused. They've been maltreated. Um, AND they basically
again have no coherent strategy for dealing with negative
situations and negative feelings when they're upset.
But let me just ask you, uh, because I
mean there's secure attachment, secure attachment style, and then
is it that the avoidant, the fearful, and the
anxious are all insecure kinds of attachment style, and,
and if so, I'm Are they always psychologically considered
negative, or can they be adaptive depending on the
situation, on the context, on the kind of interpersonal
relationship, and so on?
Excellent question. Excellent question. Yes, they all, all of
those different styles, um, anxious, dismissive avoidant, fearful avoidant,
and disorganized are insecure styles and this is something
that a lot of people in the public don't
understand. They Disorganization is not adaptive because there's no
strategy there. You're kind of like bandied about by
what's happening to you and you don't know how
to deal with it. But the other types of
insecurity that are more in the normal or normative
range, anxious, fearful, avoidant, and dismissive avoidant, they are
adaptive at some level because what people have, what
these people have learned in their history is that
they, they, they can't assume their partners are going
to necessarily be there for them in the way
that they need. And so they have to find
a way of regulating their emotions that will allow
them to get what they need from their partners.
And so what anxious people do, they've learned that
they can't really count on people from their past
experiences. What they do is they kind of clamor
for attention and they clamor for reassurance and they
cling. But that's an adaptive thing to do if
you've had a history of partners who are kind
of fickled and you know, you can't predict what
they're going to do. You want to get their
attention and you want to keep their attention. So
that's an adaptive actual, actually strategy given that it's
based upon what's happened to you in prior close
relationships. And the same is true of avoidance. I
mean, the idea behind avoidance, at least early on
in life, is that um An avoidance strategy allows
you to make sure that you don't drive away,
uh, an attachment figure, let's say a mother or
a father or even a close friend, um, who
may not be highly motivated to stay with you.
Uh, SO, you kind of like, you don't push
them too hard. You, you, you become independent, you
become autonomous, you give them space, um, and that
allows you to maintain that relationship. But without driving
them away. And so, in, in that sense, avoidance
is also an adaptive strategy. Uh, AVOIDANT people usually
have a history of being, uh, rejected at least
mildly, not necessarily kind of totally pushed away, but
kind of rebuffed and kind of like, um, not
given sufficient attention and so they've learned to become
self-reliant. Um, AND that's a very, a very adaptive
thing to do. If you have a history of
partners who forced you to become independent. Right,
so I want to ask you about how these
attachment styles develop, and I want to go through
each of the potential factors that might play a
role here. So are there or do we know
of any genetic predispositions to developing any particular kind
of attachment style?
That's another really good question. So, uh, the, the
early twin studies that were done showed very low
heritability levels. In other words, there didn't appear to
be much of a genetic basis to these styles.
This is unlike personality traits. So, if you look
at the big five, for example, um, uh, openness
to experience, conscientiousness, extroversion. Uh, AGREEABLENESS and neuroticism, those
are the big five. All of those tend to
have heritabilities that are around 40 or 50%, with
the other 50 or 60% being due to environmental
factors or to error in measurement, things like that.
The early studies on attachment were the heritability percentages
were a lot lower, but there's been, there's been
some more recent work with bigger samples to show
that there is, there's probably were underestimates of the
heritability. It still isn't, as far as I know,
at the level of, of personality trait like extroversion,
which might be 40, 50% heritable. Um, BUT there
might be a little bit of heritability, but the
idea behind attachment theory, going back to John Bowlby,
who developed the theory, is that these styles largely
reflect the way you were treated in prior relationships
with attachment figures, people who you depended on. Uh,
FOR protection, for advice, for support, for care, and
so the idea is that they probably are largely
environmentally determined, and we've actually started to, these ideas
have been out there for a long time. There's
been a lot of work looking at attachment. Um,
ACROSS the lifespan, but we're just now beginning to
understand what are the environmental factors that affect adult
attachment styles toward your parents when you're an adult,
toward your friends when you're an adult, and toward
your romantic partner or partners when you're an adult.
So when it comes to environmental factors apart from
your early experiences with interpersonal relationships, are there any
other aspects of the environment, any other environmental factors
that might play a role in the development of
attachment?
Yeah, they're what we've learned, we've recently did a
published a study, in fact, it was published only
a couple of months ago. In the Journal of
Personality and Social Psychology where we had data on
700 people from very early in life, pretty much
the time they were born. Into uh late, late
adolescence, early adulthood, late twenties, basically. Um, AND we
had really good measures of what happened to them
at various points in development with their mother, with
their father, with their friends in the context of
their school, um, and also with the romantic partners.
And what we found in terms of the relationship,
uh, variables is that, um, individuals who had more
sensitive, uh, parents, parents who actually, this is based
upon videotaped ratings actually of Young the participants when
they were young as children interacting with their mother
and father in stressful situations, that that people who
had got more sensitive parenting, especially from their mothers,
who felt closer to their mothers, who had less
conflict, who experienced lower levels of hostility, those people
became more secure or were more secure in all
kinds of different relationships in adulthood. Um, AND we
also found with regard to friends. Friends are also
very, very important that if you, uh, had high-quality
friendships earlier in life and you are more competent,
socially competent as a peer in the context of
friendships, you are more likely to have secure. RO
man tic relationships later in life. And so those
are the primary variables that we've studied that makes
sense theoretically as well that predict adult attachment styles,
be they with regard to your attachment to your
mother or your father or your friend or your
romantic partner. But there are some other things. I
mean, for example, we've done some work that's shown
that simply having a stressful life. Being experiencing a
lot of daily stress due to lack of money,
due to interpersonal conflicts, due to, you know, the
things that life throws at you, that can make
people also more insecure in general. Um, AND so,
that's another factor. It's important though to, to realize
that attachment theory is a theory that suggests that
people can change uh as your environment changes, as
the quality of your interpersonal relationships as you go
across life changes, you can change your attachment styles
and that's why, that's why therapy, we have therapy
and why therapy works. And why it's important to
find a partner or find a close friend who
can help kind of correct the way you think
about things if you come in those relationships as
an insecure person. Right. There is a, there, there
are, the, the, again, the theory says that, you
know, your, your, your experience across life is not
necessarily going to be consistently bad or consistently good.
It's gonna vary depending on who you meet and
what kinds of things you are doing at, at
different stages of life and so, people do change.
Mm. I think that you've already addressed this question,
at least partially, but what is the role that
unique life experiences might play in attachment styles?
Yeah, yeah, I know you have a lot of
them, and this is, um, there is a concept
in attachment theory called earned security, and what it
suggests is that some people start out in life
being insecure for some of the reasons I just
indicated. But they uh have experiences that allow them
to become more secure without being in therapy, just
life experiences. So one example is, um, mentors or
teachers, important teachers in your life that allow you
to correct the way you think about the degree
to which you can trust other people and the
degree to which you're you're valuable as a person.
Uh, SO teachers can be, uh, transformative figures that
can change your, um, your relationship. Mentors, um, and
mentors can sometimes be good, but sometimes they can
be bad if they betray trust, right? Uh, SO
mentors, uh, your involvement in, you know, organizations as
athletic organizations, scouting. Um, YOU know, other kinds of
things that kids, uh, and adolescents get involved in,
those, those, uh, people sometimes can be at least
surrogate attachment figures, um, as you develop and your
experiences with them can also kind of shift your
trajectory based upon your earlier experiences with, let's say,
family members or other, other people in your life.
So I think you've already talked about this, but
then at the attachment styles, I mean whatever kind
of attachment style we develop applies to all kinds
of different interpersonal relationships. I mean, being with family
members, friends, romantic partners, and so on.
Mhm, YEAH, definitely. Definitely. And I, I should mention
one more thing regarding change. Going back to the
study that I talked about where we had, we
studied about 700 people across time. What we also
found in that study, and this is one of
the novel parts of it, is that because we
had measures of sensitivity and closeness and conflict and
hostility at multiple points in time, we could look
at trajectories of change. So, for example, some people
start out with an insensitive mother and or father.
They have a bad relationship early in life. There's
a lot of hostility, but it gets better. It
gets better as they move into, let's say the
elementary school. It gets even better as they move
into high school and beyond. We also found that
if you are experiencing an upward trajectory, things are
getting better. You tend to be more secure. Independent
of what happened to you earlier in life. So
that it's not just, it's not just where you
start, it's the trajectory that you're on that also
independently predicts the degree to which you're secure or
insecure later in life. And again, it just shows
that, you know, things change and as things change,
people kind of recalibrate the way they think about
themselves in relationships. They recalibrate the way they think
about other people. Uh, THEY make adjustments and they
then change the way they interact, how they think,
feel, and behave with regard to their, their current
partners.
But I mean, I think this question is important.
Do people have even if their attachment style can
change, we've already talked about that, but do people
have one single attachment style to everyone and every
kind of relationship, or can they have different or
men. Manifest different attachment styles to different people. So
let's say, could I have, for example, a secure
attachment style with a particular friend, and at the
same time I have an avoidant attachment style with
my father and an anxious attachment style with another
friend depending on The way that our relationship develops.
Yeah, you're accurate. Most people, the vast majority, there
are some cases where there's probably consistency across those
types of relationships. I'll talk about in a moment,
but, but typically what you find is that people
differ depending on not only the type of relationship,
at least a little bit. But also the person
that you're with because your, your attachment is also
a function of who you're with at that point
in time and what they're like. So, for example,
if you're with, uh, if you have a history
of avoidance, but you get involved with a romantic
partner who's rock solid secure, and you will, and
they, and they know how to provide you with
tailored support so that you feel like you have
sufficient independence, but you can also turn to them
for help. And, and, you know, and support and
comfort. Then you actually become less avoidant just because
of that specific relationship with that specific person. And
so there is an element of person specificity in
the context of these different types of relationships, friends,
romantic partners, family members could be sibs as well,
right? A sib could be an attachment figure for
you depending on the nature of that relationship. So
yes, uh, most people typically will have slightly different
styles with different, not only different types of relationships,
but different people. But there are a few, there,
there probably is one major exception, and that is
individuals who've been severely maltreated early in life. If
you think about, you know, for example, The Romanian
orphanages that existed 20 years ago where they, the
children basically were given institutional care. There was little
contact comfort, little physical or even psychological or, or
emotional uh caring because they had so many kids
that a small number of people in these orphanages
were, the staff was overwhelmed basically. In those really
extreme cases where there's been neglect or abuse, those
people might be basically insecure with everybody at some
level for the vast majority of their life, but
those cases are fairly atypical. For most people, you're
going to have variability in attachment, security or insecurity
across relationships and across different people within those relationships.
Yeah, for someone to be insecure in every kind
of relationship with everyone and probably for the rest
of their life, I mean they have to really
go through extreme kinds of early life experiences, yeah,
and there could be some balancing going on. So
for example, it could be the case, let's say
that you are You're insecure with regard to your
romantic partners, but people need contact. And so what
they might do is they might try really hard
to develop secure relationships with their close friends to
kind of balance. They need someone they can go
to and talk to, confide in, uh, and if
they feel they can't do it in the context
of romantic relationships given a bad history of being
betrayed, being rejected, being treated badly. What they may
do to compensate is they may really work to
develop a secure best friend. Um, AND that may
be a kind of a way that we don't
necessarily have a lot of evidence with regard to
that, but if you think anecdotally, that does make
a lot of sense because people do, everyone within
reason needs to have a connection, and they need
to have someone they can not only confide in,
but can find comfort in. Um, AND, uh, even
insecure people, um, they also need that. They just
oftentimes Either want it on their own terms, like
like what an avoidant person would typically do, or
they want it so badly that they tend to
drive people away, and that's sometimes what happens with
anxiously attached people,
right? And with the same person. Can our attachment
style, the kind of attachment we have with them,
change over time? So for example, if I am
anxious, anxiously attached to someone and that person, because
I mean I'm just honest with them or Because
he or she notices it and she is secure
and manifests back that security to me, is it
possible that over time I might develop a secure
attachment style with them?
Yes, yes, exactly. In fact, we did some of
the, we did some of the early work looking
on our lab on attachment change in the context
of the transition to parenthood. So, we chose the
transition to parenthood because it tends to be both
a happy time but also a stressful time as
you're making a life adjustment, especially when it's your
first child, right? You're becoming a new parent. And
what we did in that study is we measured
each partner's, in this case they were biological parents,
mother's and father's attachment. Um, TO each other before
their baby was born, their first baby. And then
we make, we followed them up and measured their
attachment and also what was happening in their relationship.
After the baby had been there for 6 months,
12 months, etc. And what we found basically is
that avoidant, people who start out as avoidant with
their partner become less avoidant if their partner over
time continues to provide them with support. And so
it doesn't happen right away. It takes a lot
of time, and this is kind of important because
during the transition to parenthood, there are new norms
that have to be developed, new rules, new routines.
There's just a lot more to do. And so
avoidant people are in a position during that period
of time where they can't just kind of push
the support away because they need the support given
all of the changes. And if they gradually begin
to learn that their partner is genuinely there for
them and they get support, they become less avoidant
across time, but it takes a long time. It
doesn't happen overnight. Uh, SO that's one example of,
uh, you know, a partner's supportiveness when you're upset
and distressed, sleep deprived, etc. um, KIND of allowing
you to realize that, yeah, maybe I can count
on my partner because even though they're distressed, they're
still giving me a lot of support and it's
actually benefiting me. Maybe I should kind of like
view them a bit differently and maybe turn to
them more for help.
Does attachment relate to jealousy in any way?
It does actually. And um there's been a reasonable
amount of work on this, and one of the
things that we've done in our lab is we've
tried to look at, we've tried to put people
in situations, not real life situations, but simulated situations
where they have to think about their partner, um,
engaging in behavior with another potentially attractive person. Um,
AND to indicate how they would feel and think
and what they might do as the apparent relationship,
if you want to call it that, between their
partner and this other attractive person as they're watching
a situation unfolds. And what we've found is that
Um, and this is consistent with other work in
the field is that anxious people start out, even
if there's minimal interaction between their partner and someone
else who might be a viable rival, they start
out being more jealous and avoidant more secure people.
And as, as the partner and this other person
kind of interact more and, and they, they get
a little bit closer. They maintain that high level
of distress and they're more likely to try to
intervene and stop the situation even before a lot
of people would say it's not really a problem
yet, right? And so, and avoiding people basically, they,
they suppress the jealousy. They say, oh, my partner
is just being my partner. There's nothing going on
here. I really don't care. So you've got the
anxious people being hypervigilant, kind of being ready to
see a problem before there really is a problem,
and you've got the avoidant people down here saying,
I'm going to dismiss it. I'm going to ignore
it. I'm going to deny something is going on
here until it's a real clear situation, and at
that point then they intervene and they get upset.
Secure people are kind of right in the middle.
They're kind of like viewing it as the way
most people would view it, you know. It starts
out, uh, probably OK, then it gets a bit
more intimate. Uh, I'm, I'm not going to pay
attention to this. Then it gets more intimate and
they think, oh, maybe I should do something, and
then at some point they actually do something. Mhm
How about personality traits? Does attachment relate to personality
traits in any way? Uh, I mean, and when
I say personality traits, it could be, I don't
know, the big five, the exo, or some other
inventory. So
that's another really good question and um uh. Several
people have done work on this. Chris Fraley at
Illinois, for example, has, I believe, and there are
others. We've done a little bit of work on
this, um, and one of the things that we
found is that there is a link actually between
the degree of security, um, secure versus insecure, and
three of the five big five traits. So, for
example, people who have a history of being secure,
starting early in life actually tend to become adults
that are more agreeable, are more conscientious. And are
less neurotic. Those three traits are the big five.
AND that, those three traits form a higher level
dimension that personality psychologists calls call stability. So, stability
is you agree with people, you cooperate with them,
you take their perspective, you are conscientious, you pay
attention to what's going on, you try to do
the right thing, and you're not neurotic. You're not
focusing. AND ruminating on, on the negative things that
are happening or could happen in the context of
your relationships. And so, so security is or the
degree of security. Going from secure to insecure is
correlated with the stability dimension in the big five,
and there's some other personality traits that are correlated
with some of the big five measures that also
correlate with attachment, but the important, an important point
to make is that these correlations are not huge.
So for example, in the study that we did,
we're looking at a person's history of security measured
in different ways. And they're standing on the big
five traits of stability, the correlations were in the
order of about 0.30, approximately. So you're accounting for
about approximately about 10% of the variation that exists
between attachment and these traits. So they're not the
same thing, but they, they do, they do intersect.
Mhm.
So I have one last question then. Do the
kinds of attachment people develop influence their parenting practices
in any way?
Yes, indeed. And in fact, the early, the early
work in developmental psychology was focused on that directly.
So the early work in developmental psychology in measuring
attachment in adults was to use what's called the
adult attachment interview. Um, AND the adult attachment interview
is about a 45 minute interview that asks people
questions about their, their memories of their parents, the
people who took care of them, also their memories
of others who took care of them as they
were growing up. So, they would ask questions about,
you know, what, what, what words describe your parents,
and they would then they would give examples of,
you know, my parents were loving. Here's an example
from my memory. Uh, AND then they, uh, it
also asked questions about what happened when you were
upset, when you were hurt, etc. AND it's coded,
um, and you can, you can, uh, place people
into categories or put them on dimensions of security
versus insecurity, um, and that, that, uh, the AI
then was used to look at how those parents
who were secure or insecure, uh, parented their own
children in a strange situation. Uh, WHICH is a
threatening situation that you put parents and kids in,
um, at about 1.5 or 2 years of age.
Um, AND what, so that work found that people
who had a secure representation of how they were
raised by their parents tended to have babies, children
in this strange situation who, uh, when they were
upset, would turn to them for comfort and would
comfort quickly, whereas the insecure. People, people who had
memories of their childhood that involved elements of either
anxiety or avoidance. Um, WHEN they were videotaped in
a strange situation with their children, their children either
Did not come to them but remained distressed or
came to them and never came calmed down. In
other words, they couldn't comfort their children. And so
there is a link there. There also is, there's
been a little bit of work looking at the
self-report adult attachment styles, which is a very different
way of measuring things than the adult attachment interview,
and that shows basically that you get somewhat similar
results. In fact, we actually did some work on
this about 30 years ago. It was the first
work that was done. Looking at self-reported attachment to
your romantic partner, predicting the way you parent your
kid in a stressful situation. And what we found
basically is results that kind of paralleled what was
being found with the AAI. Now what's interesting about
this is, at least in my opinion, is that
the AAI does not correlate really highly. With the
self-report romantic attachment measures that makes some sense because
the AI measures your attachment based on memories when
you were a child with your parents in one
type of relationship. And the self-report romantic measures measure
your more conscious representations of attachment in a different
relationship, romantic, with a different person. Um, BUT when
you look at the two together, they both kind
of predict the same parenting styles. So secure parents,
parents who are secure with their romantic partner, um,
tend to be more sensitive, more caring, more empathic.
Um, Parents who are insecure with their partner tend
to either be hovering. Like anxious people kind of
hovering over the kid, child and not letting them
kind of do the task on their own, wanting
to do it for them, or they tend to
be more avoidant where they kind of like when
the child fails at something, they kind of like
rebuff them, dismiss them, you know, kind of view
them as like, you know, come on, you could
do better than that. And so it's interesting, we,
this is one of the reasons why I think
attachment theory is powerful because You can measure security
with different people in different ways and you still
see the same basic kinds of outcomes even though
they're not necessarily always highly correlated.
Yeah, no, that's really fascinating. So Dr. Simpson, just
before we go, would you like to tell people
where they can find your work on the internet?
Uh, YEAH, if you go to the Department of
Psychology at the University of Minnesota, um, there is
a tab of faculty, and you can click on
my link, and I've got a, uh, uh, a
web page there that describes the most recent work
that we've done. Um, I'm also on uh Orchid,
uh, which lists all the things that I've done
over the years, um, and, um, that probably is
the best way to To, you know, find out
what I'm doing, but there's a lot of good
information out there on the internet on attachment. Attachment
theory has become, and it's a grand theory basically
of relationships. It's one of the 3 or 4
biggest theories, and it's become, you know, one of
the more popular, um, Popular theories, not only in
academia, but also out there in the public. There's
a lot of stuff on the, on the internet
that allows you to kind of, uh, you know,
take, take tests that measure your attachment, uh, your
attachment styles and things like that. And I would
also encourage, uh, folks to take a look at
some of, of that information because there's a lot
of it out there and a lot of it's
actually pretty good. Mhm.
OK, great. So thank you so much for taking
the time to come on the show. It's been
a real pleasure to talk with you.
I've enjoyed it, Ricardo. Thank you very much.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Enlights Learning and
Development done differently. Check their website at enlights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters,
Perergo Larsson, Jerry Mulleran, Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seyaz Olaf,
Alex, Adam Cassel, Matthew Whittingbird, Arnaud Wolff, Tim Hollis,
Eric Elena, John Connors, Philip Forst Connolly. Then Dmitri
Robert Windegerru Inai Zu Mark Nevs, Colin Holbrookfield, Governor,
Michel Stormir, Samuel Andrea, Francis Forti Agnun, Svergoo, and
Hal Herzognun, Machael Jonathan Labran, John Yardston, and Samuel
Curric Hines, Mark Smith, John Ware, Tom Hammel, Sardusran,
David Sloan Wilson, Yasilla Dezaraujo Romain Roach, Diego Londono
Correa. Yannik Punteran Ruzmani, Charlotte Blis Nicole Barbaro, Adam
Hunt, Pavlostazevski, Alekbaka Madison, Gary G. Alman, Semov Zal
Adrian Yei Poltontin, John Barboza, Julian Price, Edward Hall,
Edin Bronner, Douglas Fry, Franco Bartolotti, Gabriel Pancortez or
Suliliski, Scott Zachary Fish, Tim Duffy, Sony Smith, John
Wiseman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georg Jarno, Luke
Lovai, Georgios Theophannus, Chris Williamson, Peter Wolozin, David Williams,
Dio Costa, Anton Ericsson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie
Martinez, Coralli Chevalier, Bangalore atheists, Larry D. Lee Junior.
Old Eringbon. Esterri, Michael Bailey, then Spurber, Robert Grassy,
Zigoren, Jeff McMahon, Jake Zul, Barnabas Raddix, Mark Kempel,
Thomas Dovner, Luke Neeson, Chris Story, Kimberly Johnson, Benjamin
Galbert, Jessica Nowicki, Linda Brendan, Nicholas Carlson, Ismael Bensleyman.
George Ekoriati, Valentine Steinmann, Per Crawley, Kate Van Goler,
Alexander Obert, Liam Dunaway, BR, Massoud Ali Mohammadi, Perpendicular,
Jane Hetner, Ursula Guinov, Gregory Hastings, David Pinsov, Sean
Nelson, Mike Levin, and Jos Necht. A special thanks
to my producers Iar Webb, Jim Frank Lucas Stink,
Tom Vanneden, Bernardine Curtis Dixon, Benedict Mueller, Thomas Trumbull,
Catherine and Patrick Tobin, John Carlo Montenegro, Al Nick
Cortiz, and Nick Golden, and to my executive producers,
Matthew Lavender, Sergio Quadrian, Bogdan Kanis, and Rosie. Thank
you for all.